# TRANSSES_mdd_simulation

This repository contains all of the files needed to perform the analysis presented in "Educational inequalities in major depressive disorder prevalence, timing, and duration among adults over the life course: a microsimulation analysis based on the Lifelines Cohort Study" by Alexander Lepe, Liza A. Hoveling,  Michaël Boissonneault, Joop A. A. de Beer, Sijmen A. Reijneveld, Marlou L. A. de Kroon, and Aart C. Liefbroer. Alex and Liza contributed equally to this work.

## Description of files

All of the transition rates, which were estimated using data from the Lifelines Cohort Study, are found within the data_files folder. The excel files provide details about the specific models used to estimate the transition rates. The rates_mdd.xlsx file also contains the estimated prevalence of major depressive disorder (MDD) at age 18, which is used as the initial prevalence of MDD in the simulations. The estimates from these files were extracted into the corresponding csv files. Files containing the suffix "_sens" are used in the sensitivity analysis, and files with the prefix "cf_" are used in the counterfactual analyses. The Stata do-file contains all of the necessary code to generate the transition rates using data from the Lifelines Cohort Study. Data from Lifelines is available upon request (www.lifelines.nl). 

The code to conduct the microsimulation analysis are found within three separate R files: parameterization_mdd.R, simulation_mdd.R, and mc_variance_mdd.R. The parameterization_mdd.R file contains the code used to parameterize the transition rates generated in Stata to account for continuous age, which is required in the simulation. The simulation_mdd.R file contains the code used to create the synthetic cohort, run the simulations, and analyze the results from the simulation. Lastly, mc_variance_mdd.R contains the code used to assess whether the sample size sufficiently eliminated the uncertainty associated with the Monte Carlo component of the microsimulation models. 